| [home page](https://cmustudent.github.io/tswd-portfolio-templates/) | [visualizing debt](visualizing-government-debt) | [critique by design](critique-by-design) | [final project I](final-project-part-one) | [final project II](final-project-part-two) | [final project III](final-project-part-three) |

# Project Final Write up- Retaining Younger Talent in Pittsburgh
When I began this proeject the focus was on the use of data to analyze the impact of affordable housing subsidies in creating economic development. While going through the project development cycle, my focus started to move away from housing and focus more on population decline.  I began to ponder the question as to why Pittsburgh's population continues to decline, despite the rise of tech industry and start ups such as Duolingo and Apple. This lead to me reorganize my project around  how the city should retain its talent  from its Universities, leading to a younger growing population. 

# Retaining Younger Talent in Pittsburgh- Project Description
The new focus of my project focused on assessing the impact of the population decline, bringin attention to the unique opportunity Pittsburgh has to grow, given the many Universities located within its city boundaries. I started to look closer at the Universities located within Pittsburgh, and how they can match up with the growing industry. The concept was to understand what the city can do to promote  the retaininment of its college populations, and be competitive in comparision to other growing metropolitan areas. This lead me to analyze how Pittsburgh can use its amenities and low housing costs to leverage young talent to continue to live within its walls beyond gradudation. 

# Changes made from feedback of Part II
Given the feedback from  part II, I needed to restructure the flow and topic of my  presentation. In its previous form, my message was not coming across clear enough, resulting in my interviewees having a hard time understandinng what I was focused on. Further, my prior message was not impactful in a way that would lead  to action from my audience.The audience I was trying to reach  was city officials and business leaders, people with the power to create initatives that could lead to economic growth. By shifting my focus to population growth, my presentation became a stronger and more effective message in which the target audience could rally around. Further the  flow of my presentation was shifted to help better analyze its main focus. 
In addition, I cleaned up my graphs from feedback, ensuring that comparisions made between cities were the same cities on all graphs. This way the visualizations are consistent across the board.  I also added more narrative in both the explanation of the graph and support of my ongoing call to action throughout. By adding in school data, as a gear for identifying who polices should be focused on, I provided the target audience with a better understanding on how policy should be catered. 

# Dsign decisions
Based on the feedback from the prior parts of the final project, I shifted my focus to a more well rounded question. Focusing on population growth allowed for an expansion of data sources that were at my disposable.  I was still able to incorporate some of my initial graphs from previous renditions around housing; however housing graphs were utilized more to identify economic potential as well as measures of population loss. I removed graphs and focus around measuring the impact of federal funds. Given the complexitiy of federal funds in housing policy, and the difficulty of measuring impact with publiclly available data, it made sense to redesign my focus. 

I redesigned my focus around an area where they was plenty of publicly available data that I could use. My project uses infusions of BEA and American Survey data to analyze population trends, vacancy rates, and types of job industry located within Pittsburgh. Using some of the university websites, I was able to obtain data on both rates of enrollment, as well as the variety of majors offered. Doing such allowed for a focused and compelling argument around why changes in policy for retaining more graduating students is vital to Pittsburgh's future. Further I used realtor data which help in arguing for Pittsburgh's affordability. 

Around my design decisions, based on the feedback I received, I kept my graph designs to mostly bar and line graphs. This is because the data I selected and its usage was around comparing multiple variables and multiple time frames. I also tried to matain the same color palates throughout for consistency. I grayed out parts of graphs which took away from the points being displayed, and balanced the use of my graphs throughout the presentation. Further, in shorthand, I decided to reoganize the structure of my presentation. By starting with population decline, I was able to emphasize why maintaining youth, specifically those attending local universities is critical for the future of Pittsburgh. All of my photos used different components and elements of Pittsburgh for contextualization and a yellow text box color was fused into each section to create strenghten a Pittsburgh focused approach. 

Simplifying and reducing the numbers of graph, allowed for me to focuss on the symmetry and flow of the narrative through the presentation. This lead to a balanced apporach for story telling allowing for stronger use of graphs in making compelling points. 

# Potential Future work
Working on this project allowed me to think about how I can extend my work in the future. Although my main area of focus is housing policy, understanding population growth and loss is a major part of where housing development will be successful or fail. Further population migration  has a huge emphasis on economic development of cities. As such I would like to fine tune my apporach, getting more detailed around the speciic types of local programs that can retain young talent while creating local job training. 




