| [home page](https://cmustudent.github.io/tswd-portfolio-templates/) | [visualizing debt](visualizing-government-debt) | [critique by design](critique-by-design) | [final project I](final-project-part-one) | [final project II](final-project-part-two) | [final project III](final-project-part-three) |

# Assignment 2 

Bar Graph of Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development- Debt-GDP ratio
<iframe src="https://data.oecd.org/chart/6Y49" width="850" height="638" style="border: 0" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true" allowfullscreen="true"><a href="https://data.oecd.org/chart/6Y49" target="_blank">OECD Chart: General government debt, Total, % of GDP, Annual, 2018</a></iframe>
Above is a bar graph made by using yearly data from OECD's Debt to GDP ratio data set. This data set measures debt and GDP comparisons within each country during the reporting period of 2018. 
# Line Graph- OECD Debt-GDP ratio 1995-2021

<div class="flourish-embed flourish-chart" data-src="visualisation/12596885"><script src="https://public.flourish.studio/resources/embed.js"></script></div>
Above is a line graph representing  changes to country Debt-GDP ratios over an extended period of time. The curved line graphs, enable the reader to understand trends and patterns amongst the economic vitality of countries since 1995.  Red was chosen as the line graph, becuase the three colors which typically represent financial based reports and graphs are green, red and black.  Choosing red, reflects not only a connection with money, but the potential for losses and decreasing ratios which represent a stronger or weaker overall country economic  performance. 
# Scatter Plot OECD Debt- GDP ratio 1995-2021

<div class="flourish-embed flourish-scatter" data-src="visualisation/12598206"><script src="https://public.flourish.studio/resources/embed.js"></script></div>
Above is a scatter plot which analyzes the comparable differences in country performances via debt ratios between 1995 and 2021. The intent and idea on using a scatter plot was to allow for a direct analysis between all countries simultanesouly, while using various colors and sizes to show performance across countries. The colors of red and orange were used to depict and describe the worst debt based ratios based on percentges of debt versus GDP. Countries which have a ratio over 1 or a percentage of over 100% are said to have worsening levels of future financial outlook. This is because the debt ratio measures how well an individual country can pay back its own level of debt based on GDP growth. Countries which show higher ratios, could indicate that the debt they are taking out is not be reinvested in the appropriate ways to create a higher growth of their GDP.  The creation of a time slide panel was used so that the user can see an interactive understanding of how all countries financial performance has changed within the same levels of comparative study. This is critical, becuase identifying patterns or explaining over world market performance can be associated with world events such as wars and armed conflicts, which can have a varying level of impact on economic wealth. The scatter plot approach,provided the best ability to mergre color and size to elevate the significance of the data results. 

# Comparison Amongst Graph Visualization Types
The above graphs represented three very different ways of approaching analyzing economic data throughout the years. Each has it strenghts and weakness in relation to  its  narrative around the data it portrays.  In general line graphs can be significant visualization tools in assessing changes of values over time. In this chase the concept is to use it show to show individual country debt levels have changed between 1995 and 2021. The indivudalized smaller charts for each country within the  time frame, is powerful in the sense it allows for an individual to only focus on specific countries of interest. The individual graphs, ensure that there is no difficulty in reading a graph which would display more then 20 lines simultaneously. Thhat being said, it might be less intuitive in its current form,  if individuals are only interested in one or two countries, they could use color and greying of other lines to compare fewer points.  The individual graph per each line in a grid, does not allow the use of shape and color distinction to analyze patterns and trends, meaning some comparisons between data could appear to be less significant then it actually is. The Scatter plot allows for these trends to be easily identifiable through its use of color and size of invidual points. 

Despite the scatter plots better assessment of impacts and trends, the bar graphs analysis amongst one year, represents a elevated curve to better stack up data points thent that of the line graph and scatter plot. It is best in the case if the use of the graph is for a more general comparsion of GDP levels versus measuring the major impact between the levels. The line graph can better estimate scaling then that of the bar graph and scatter plot.  Where scaling between bars might misidentify the impact of GDPS between years,the line graph shows a complete story of indicating whether a country is moving into a better or worse financial outcome. The bar graph does lack in its ability to better tell a story over several years, then the line and scatter plot. The more bars incorporated onto the graph, the more busy it becomes, distracting the reader from the graphs potential main purpose. 
